in this video I'm going to be walking
you through how to pause underperforming
keywords in your Google ad account I'm
going to be showing you the manual way
of doing this but just know that this
entire process can be automated using
automated rules like we talk about in
our Google ads courses but I do believe
it's important to do this manually first
so you can have a really good
understanding of the process and then
automate it afterwards so Step One is go
into your Google ad account and navigate
to The Search keywords Tab and from here
the first thing we're want to do is we
want to kind of clean out the noise
depending on the size of your account
you could have a lot of keywords like
for example in this account there's
3553 keywords so we definitely want to
reduce the the noise here so first
things first is set a filter of keyword
status enabled so you only see active
keywords then I also recommend that you
add a filter of conversions less than
one we really want to be operating here
and looking at keywords that are just
bleeding money the ones that haven't
driven anything at all that we want to
consider pausing another filter you
could potentially add is around cost so
if you do still have a lot of active
keywords after these two filters you can
set some sort of sprend threshold where
you know spent more than $100 or a th000
whatever that is for you and that'll
clean this up even more so once you've
applied your filters it's going to clean
up your keyword report and now go ahead
and just sort by cost so you can see
from the start which keywords are the
most impactful and probably the most
eligible to be paused so I can see here
for this keyword that we've spent $4,000
in in this account that I'm using and we
haven't generated any sales qualified
leads or any conversions at all for that
matter so this is a prime candidate for
pausing of this keyword if I believe
this keyword will not perform now a
couple things to consider before you
pause that keyword uh number one is was
the keyword set up properly right do you
have the right match type because it
could be that the keyword just not set
up right and because of that it's not
performing you're not actually showing
up the right Search terms so assuming
you have the right match type then the
next thing you want to ask yourself is
how relevant is this keyword for your
business if it's you know kind of a a
stretch you know you you need additional
volume and you kind of went a little bit
outside your comfort zone then you can
probably make the case that it's not a
relevant keyword and you can validate
that with your Search terms report but
in addition to that you want to ask
yourself is it worth spending this money
so if I spend $4,000 on this keyword is
it relevant enough for my business where
hey you know what I still think there's
value in it and I'll just chalk that up
to awareness so if the answer is no
after going through those two things I
guess the final question to ask yourself
here is does the offer match the intent
of the keyword so for example if I'm
building on you know let's say sales and
enement platform am I driving people to
a landing page that allows them to
explore sales platforms right and get a
demo so just make sure that the intent
is reflective of the offer because
that's another opportunity for you to
not give this keyword a fair shot so
assuming you've answered uh yes to all
three things you know it is set up
properly it is worth it to your business
and third uh it is matching the intent
but it still hasn't performed well then
in that case it's fair to say that it's
time to pause this keyword and uh you
would just go ahead and click on that
keyword edit pause and aways you go I
recommend as you go through this process
that you just skim through the report
and then you start to select multiple
keywords together so you can just pause
them all at once and just little things
like that save time and what I recommend
as well is that you set some sort of
condition for yourself on how you make
this decision- making because this is
also going to Prime you for Automation
in the future so what are your
non-performer thresholds so how much are
you willing to allow this keyword to
spend before you pause it so for example
maybe I'm going to let keyword spend up
to 2x my allowable Target before pausing
it so I'm going to if I want leads for
$100 I'm going to let this keyword spend
$200 $300 Max and then I'm going to turn
off depending on its performance so that
allows you just kind of create some sort
of logic around your pausing and not
just like emotional reaction because
it's it's easy to just kind of freak out
and pause things too prematurely so just
kind of having some guard rail set for
yourself even if it's not based on any
statistical significance is nice to just
kind of keep your emotions in check and
that's it it's a pretty straightforward
process uh but this is what you would do
and you would just do this on a on a
frequent basis to make sure that uh you
are not bleeding any money and then when
you are ready to take it to the next
level you would just automate this with
rules so now it's just streamlined for
you so it's very pragmatic once it meets
that threshold it doesn't perform based
on your criteria it gets shut off and uh
you move on to the next one